if you guys watch my youtube channel you
will know my life is one long morality
lecture I'm constantly lecturing
everyone around me about ethics and
politics and history and these things
there's me and the people who stick
around seem to like it you know what I
mean I mean she she could replace me I
could replace her but mm-hmm works out
fine no but you know my my whole adult
life First Nations Native Americans
creative Weyden a mohawk the native
people in her it's been a big a big deal
to me and my momma claims I was like
that even as a very small child she
claims I was already lecturing the world
about you know colonialism and genocide
indigenous peoples digis languages when
I was a really small kid which is
interesting my memory is that is a bit
later she seems to remember even earlier
than I do like I came out of the womb
pissed off about these issues but you
know part of my life that I did
anticipate was that when I moved to Asia
and started being a scholar of Asian
languages and Buddhism history and
politics and someone over here um was
that I really found myself explaining to
Asian people the history of Canada and
of Australia in these other places from
a totally different angle in perspective
than I never imagined right so when I
lived in Laos that's more than ten years
ago now I think right yeah it is it is
so I mean Laos may have changed a bit in
ten years Laos was emerging from post
war poverty and kind of communist
control of information and just general
podunk ignorance but you know I talked
to allow people who sincerely believed
that the the map of the world was kind
of like the video game pac-man in that
if you went off one side of the screen
you'd pop up on the other side of the
screen right like pac-man
so I met and spoke to some lotion people
who actually thought that white people
were Aboriginal Australians because they
said when you look at the map there's
like Sweden and Norway up there and then
you go off the map and then you come
back and you're down here at like
Australia and New Zealand
and they were not joking they were not
joking they thought that like these
terms like indigenous Australian
Aboriginal Australian they thought that
referred to like poor white people in
Australia who'd been there since forever
because they thought that's how the mapa
though the works right like yeah you
just go a little bit further north from
Norway and Sweden and then you see what
I mean is you teleport around right so
yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah and you know
and like you know I was in a position I
was not gonna ridicule them or something
but it's like okay so let me talk you
through you know last 500 years of the
British Empire let's let's have a
conversation now for them also just
mention some in Laos as a communist
country they have heard a lot about
imperialism and about colonialism but
they've always heard it from kind of
communist governments propaganda right
so naturally like all people in
countries where you're constantly
inundated with propaganda they soon
become indifferent to it or regard at
all as lies which in a sense of shame I
mean I you know I myself scrutinized a
lot of Lao government propaganda but
very often it was kind of 9/10 true and
you really felt served people because
that propaganda was their only source of
of history written in their own language
but because of the 10% of it that was
not true they regarded all of it as
false so for a lot of them to they'd be
sitting there listen to me and they'd be
like whoa all my life I've been lectured
by this left-wing government about the
evils of imperialism and colonialism but
I always thought it was [ __ ] because
like for them they grow up and it's like
there's the reality of coca-cola
there's the reality of American movies
American culture American videogames
American like rock and roll music or if
they listen to rap music
you know hip hop music and then there's
this discourse from the government about
oppression and colonialism and
imperialism and cultural imperialism
they like to use that term cultural
imperialism and to them the reality of
one the immediate reality of what
American culture is completely discredit
these seemingly ridiculous claims about
American history how can they believe
that America is built on genocide
it just seems preposterous it seems loud
how can they believe that Australia is
built on genocide it seems laughable it
seems ridiculous you know because I mean
that's I mean that's how they're
learning about the outside world and of
course they know that their government
lies to them but all kinds of things to
give an example like the Lao government
will lie to you about an airplane crash
they'll never you know it will never
admit that an airplane crash they lie
about a boat sinking like even little
things like everyone knows this boat
sank like you know everyone has a cousin
or something that died in this boat I
mean not everyone but you don't mean
like enough people are within six
degrees of separation to know someone
who died in a boat that sank and the
government denies this ever happened you
know so the key in all kinds of ways the
government describes himself so that was
one element of it was just dealing with
this now I mean I guess another is you
know they did have the propaganda from
the Christians from the Christian
missionaries and it's it's really
interesting I mean I guess to summarize
there are some Christian missionaries
who try to promote Christianity as
magical and when you think about it
they're the more honest missionaries
like like who just say like this is
magical you know but then there were the
Christian missionaries who try to
present Christianity as the religion of
science and progress and westernization
and democracy you know which of course
in a certain sense it is you know if you
live in a country like Laos or Cambodia
or even Taiwan you know a different
place they or Japan even there's a sense
in which you know Christianity is the
religion of the atom bomb it's the
religion of the US Army and the nuclear
bomb and you know all those things and
the religion of Santa Claus and you know
Christmas toys and you know of this new
and strange kind of technology to them
but those Christian missionaries and
Christian education which is definitely
it's it's a major alternative source of
propaganda in these countries that's
that's being totally dishonest about the
history of colonialism and of course the
reality of what even medieval Europe was
you know just the the unbelievably
horrible reality of what you know
medieval Europe was when the Christians
really had
political control of that part of the
world you know so there also a one
conversation really sticks out of my
mind with a guy who is very sharp
he was nobody's fool he he was a
government official you know with in
Laos he was a member of an ethnic
minority so he did kind of question the
government and questioned a lot of
things and he spent a lot of his time
talking to foreigners partly just to
improve his English he was one of these
kind of free thinking guys but I
remember he just flatly told me when I
told no you know like the Catholic
Church has killed millions of people all
over the world they're guilty of forms
of genocide you like literally can't
imagine that I can I can start you know
describing for you know know they used
to literally boil people in a metal pot
they used to literally burn people at
the stake they used to literally torture
people to death on a stretching rack you
know the the iron maiden before iron
maiden was the name of a rock band you
know wasn't a show method of torturing
people you know this Spanish Inquisition
but from my perspective also the main
point because I'm Canadian being how
Christianity was spread as a religion in
Canada and to First Nations people the
United States and again I mean he's
living in a very propaganda rich part of
Asia and he just he doesn't believe
anything I'm saying you know and I
remember to sing to him ask your priest
he had a he had a European appreciate a
white man who was the I guess the head
of the main catholic church in in
vientiane laos maybe for all of laos but
they had imported a white man to preach
the word god i said ask him directly you
know ask him the reality what happened
to the people who were not christian
with in france talk just even with in
france the religious persecution in the
history of france cuz it was a french
catholic tradition there as i recall
maybe I miss your memory but I see you
know whether it's the example is the
history of Christianity in Australia or
Canada or even within France you know
they don't they don't wanna deal with
stuff so that's one that's one whole
category of of how that stuff gets
addressed so I just dealt with this in
the last couple of days I'm teaching a
course here at a university with the
university level students and unlike
most white men who teach English in
China you know I'm not kind of pained
bring down to the students I kind of say
the students will look you guys are you
know you're mature adults you're 21
years old and they're basically
education majors that people are
training to become teachers themselves
so you know I can I can put the content
up here and you guys can come up to me
and deal with some university level
reading and university level discussions
so lately we have dealt with First
Nations in the following way we had a
whole series of lessons dealing with
education how the education system works
in different countries how it's
different in Japan from is in the United
States and these kinds of issues a whole
bunch of examples around the world and
bunch of student presentations on
different aspects some philosophical and
some totally practical like some of my
lessons have dealt with philosophy
Aristotle and Plato but some of them
dealt with like how my students can make
money being a language teacher in the
United States or in Europe like
someone's been a really practical advice
that'll impact their careers so just
saying it's not all a morality lecture
it's not all about ethics and so on and
then I present to them this fact that oh
okay this is actually represented in in
in you know the same sequence I said to
them look you know countries like the
United States and Canada were not poor
you know this you know our government is
not running out of money
you know we have plenty of money for in
terms of the education budget and so on
and we just did a lesson where we looked
at some of the most excellent
universities universities and schools we
looked at sort of what are the leading
best what are the new ideas in education
what are they consider the best of the
best schools in United States Canada
England also Japan and a few other
countries okay so we just looked at the
best said but you know everyone says
this a lot of universities in the United
States are terrible a lot of schools in
Canada are terrible why is that because
money money is not the problem you know
with it and I I pushed them with so you
know trying to get some answers and get
different incident I said okay so you
know the government didn't decide
because a lot of this comes down to
government money the government didn't
decide we're gonna make this school
terrible in the school good they didn't
do this intentionally it's not a
conspiracy to just you know
intentionally punish some reveals so
tell me where are the bad schools and
why are the bad
coal's there you know why are these bad
schools and you don't try to press on
and again we're practicing English and
they're practicing some some creative
thinking because they really have no
idea they've never thought about this
before and I said to them you know maybe
you never thought about this but in the
United States there were three kinds of
schools there were schools that were
creative for white people there are
schools that were created for black
people and there are schools that are
created for Native Americans and this
blows their minds and I start going into
with the u.s. I'm mostly talking about
the university level of Education so
what are called Indian colleges
universities that are actually run by
band councils by Native American bands
and how those are funded in contrast to
historically black colleges and we did
so then the next week we got into the
history of segregation and inequality in
black versus white education in that
states but that we came you know there's
only so much you can do with him within
one university lecture so we mostly
dealt with the differences between
university level education for Native
Americans versus white people in America
and then we got into the parallel
questions in in Canada we have our own
form of racial segregation and the
unequal but just how our actual
education system functions differently
for white people versus native people
and then for Catholics versus non
Catholics and for francophone Zoras
Anglophones there are a lot of these
questions of various forms of
segregation in what we do but another
one of the things that just amazed them
and this is such a simple thing so that
the the photocopy I gave them included
the statistic it said and you know
there's more than one statistic you can
get for this in terms of exactly the
numbers now so okay so you notice here
on the on the handout it says in Canada
today only about 6% of our population is
indigenous please don't bother me
sending emails yes I realize it can be
7% and it can be less depending on
exactly which definitions you use in
which sense of study is but as I recall
with something this guy was something
like 6.5 percent of Canadians are native
or indigenous and so then I said to them
okay so you have that statistic so what
percentage of Americans people in United
States four percentage
Americans are dizziness and in this this
isn't this products all this
conversation leading up to it and had
shown them the map and it's shown them
this college and we talked about these
these tiny Native American college look
some of them are colleges or a theory of
their universities they have like four
hundred students they're really ten
they're out in these remote areas you
know it's really bizarre or parallel
universe of tertiary education first for
Native Americans and how that's funded
and so on so this is covered and yeah I
remember once did she was she was
intelligent you just guffaw do that
she's laughed at how impossible she
thought the the question was but her
final guess was forty percent and then
she did sixty percent I really don't
know so I don't think I have here but
you know I had partly to just reinforce
the the contemporary Ness of this
question this came up again in class
today one of the students said very
casually that the native people of Japan
their native minorities of course
Japanese people are native to Japan
those of other groups like the I knew
and the NIV key they said the native
people they still engage in traditional
hunting and fishing and I stopped her
Sookie so pardon me this is also part of
my job I don't just let the students
give a lecture I do you know Q&A I said
did you actually see that on the
Internet
I said is that the reality feather with
today in 2017 and I held up the picture
given that was part of the photocopied
handout because I intentionally gave
them some photographs they were just
random Native Americans they were Native
Americans at a particular University a
Native American University exactly well
the discussion but point out of them
look this is what these people look like
they wear the same kind of clothes you
and I where they have the same kind of
jobs you know they drive but they have
they very much live in the modern world
they're not they're not carrying a spear
they're not they really live in the
modern world with electricity and
cellphones and you know all the same
problems other people have in terms of
Education and and everything else right
so I wonder if it was for that reason
this girl was seriously guessing like is
it 40% of her say she was not because
also to them when they looked at those
photographs of Native Americans they
can't tell ethnically like the the
facial features are not that different
from white people and this is you know
legitimately the case in many many many
instances not always but you know in
many instances there's no easy way to
recognize who is and it wasn't First
Nations you know but anyway from a
Chinese perspective at least you know we
we look alike but she was really
sincerely guessing and the other guesses
I got likewise they were way higher than
Canada like as if they imagined like the
point of this lecture was like well like
in Canada they really committed genocide
like they were shocked they were shocked
to learn that only 6% of Canadian
Canadians are our native people right
but they thought like well America's not
like that America the land of the free
like I don't know like maybe it is the
political discourse about like democracy
and freedom and human rights that
America gives out that they really
thought you know like a mirror could be
better but I said no so these various
guesses am and some some were more
conservative but they were guessing like
15% 20% person I said no in Canada six
percent of our population is indigenous
in America it's they'll until 1 percent
okay now again depending on which
studies use census data or whatever you
can get a 2% figure and but 1% is the is
the stat I'm going with which is a
census US Census stat using a strict
definition of who's we say but who's not
and I said to them directly when only 1%
of your population is native that means
you've got 99 percent genocide this is
the reality of the world we've read it
in the United States and Canada it's 90
percent genocide you know so it's really
it shook them up I mean they're not dumb
I mean okay I'm not gonna say every
single student in the class was really
relating this but yeah I'd say like
above 80 percent of the students were
really interested in this and not nearly
as many students were interested in
philosophy of Aristotle just mention it
yeah I would say honestly it was above
90 percent of the students were really
like woah this is a whole side of both
world history and also just education
because remember they're all they're all
education students this is welcomed into
their lives and careers and I said to
them also I said look for your own
employment this is a way for you to get
a job in the United States you can look
at the
other school boards whether it's
african-american colleges or you know
Native American or First Nations of the
stuff so you know there are actually two
opportunities here because it's really
hard for them to hire people you know so
yeah there was a there's a lot to it so
maybe if you you wants anyone jumping
yeah I've got one note written down from
from today's lesson you know I know if
you'll relate to this or not I guess
good comment is that I think your
lessons are really really well put
together see what I put up with Thanks
thanks love oh I mean you know anyway I
try to structure this stuff so I'm
always learning and that's another
element of the why I'm not depressed
I've learned so much this week it's nuts
you know and in the next couple weeks
you know I'm not just working on Chinese
now we're Lambrecht and lotion and
French and in terms of history and
politics and everything I learn a lot
from week to week I'm 39 years old in
some ways you know my life's a disaster
and I don't recommend other people live
the way I do but in some ways no I mean
really I don't recommend people imitate
what I don't know it but in some ways
I'm like yeah you know I'm still
learning a lot age 39
everything's genuinely interesting to me
so I also learn when you're tell me like
maybe someone will send us a question
from patreon is there Melissa is there
anything ISIL is into that you don't
find her I don't know we listen to a lot
of the same rap news do but look staying
on topic here so I wrote down one one
note on this so one of the students said
in her presentation so she did a
presentation dealing with First Nations
Native Americans and these these
problems of Education inequality
she said it was a reasonable statement
but a challenge Iran it's a reasonable
but false a reasonable move misleading
she said well you know it's natural that
they have a lower quality of education
in these backward areas that's a very
Chinese perspective like they were
shocked also because this came up not
with all the classes with one of them I
said you know it's not the case in
America that like the best university is
in New York City and the worst
university is in Hawaii like University
of Hawaii is a great you know really
it's just that's not the way our system
works
they really think that way they think
okay the best University is in Beijing
because that's the center and that's the
and then the further out you go you know
the worse it is but I challenge it says
a normal Chinese way to think whoa these
are backward areas therefore naturally
they have they have bad education for
Native people and I challenge you I said
to her look you know I used to live in
Laos you know I used to live in Cambodia
I did humanitarian work I also did
teaching I was molded education misc
stuff right here I said look in Laos
I've been to backward areas and I've
been to areas where the school has no
electricity
you know I pointed the life there was
literate there's no electricity and
there is no glass in the windows the
school is made out of wood and the
window is just a hole in the wall you
don't mean there's so if you and there's
no electricity so if you want to teach
after the Sun Goes Down you light a
candle
hordes of locusts flying into the wind
there's you know insects are attracted
to the guy speaking experience their
people you know what I mean the wood in
no mulch and I said and in that school
there are no books you know there are no
books of course there's no internet
access okay that's backward that's
backward time but the United States and
Canada all these schools have
electricity
all of them have books all of them have
internet access so you can read things
on the internet or order books through
the internet if you know you don't have
enough books in the in the university
library but actually even the smoke
cause I'm sure they deal with enough
books around for what for what they got
to do you know on the topics they're not
they're not poor in that absolute sense
right so I said what does it mean like
how is it is it an excuse to say these
are it back whatever's what's the actual
disadvantage you know what does it mean
to say they're in backward areas and you
know I pushed her on this you know again
because it's not easy from to answer in
English and you know she ultimately kind
of said something like well I guess in
in you know in backward areas you know
like people are just less scholarly and
they're they're more lazy and drink
alcohol and so on which is actually a
really honest answer and then you know
actually I pushed further without it was
okay so that's that's an interesting
point so it's not the no novella Tracy's
other ton of books you know there's kind
of like a lack of intellectual
stimulation and a lack of
scholarly culture you know academic
culture would have you and you know
people are doing alcohol and I said okay
but let's which one comes first you know
because no I'm speaking in somewhat
simple English your office I said so is
it that people drink too much alcohol
and therefore they're stupid or is that
people are stupid and you know
therefore they drink too much alcohol
you know if they're not they're not
enjoying it with like what what does
this really mean and I talked through
with them also is like well you know the
huge impact if your parents drink and
not not even though they're alcoholics
but if your parents drink instead of
talking to you about history and
politics or just even watching the TV
news with you or whatever just how
different it is to have parents who
drink alcohol every night and they kept
saying oh yeah alcoholics it was no no
not not even alcoholics just moderate
drinkers but where that is your culture
and that is your upbringing stuff so we
got into a lot of good stuff and a
couple of those student presentations
were specifically dealing with education
and alcohol education alcoholism
education and drug use so a student
presentation exactly on that stuff yeah
okay so right I
this is a long enough video over past 20
minutes but yeah it's a really
interesting role I've played is
introducing people in Asia to the basic
concept that white people are not the
indigenous population of Canada and what
that means and why it matters and yes
sometimes the discussion has been more
about Australia or the United States or
what have you and seeing the political
significance of that for them as they as
it first dawns on them as they first
think about it
the first time in their lives and they
see all this other propaganda they've
heard about colonialism and imperialism
in a new light and you know I think the
saddest part is that there are a lot of
Asians who are living in Canada right
now Asians who migrated from India to
Canada from China to Canada from
Cambodia to Canada and they've never
even thought through what I've just
worked through with my students they've
never even had that much of an
introduction to the history of Canada
and they may have even become Canadian
citizens because let me tell you Asian
people in Canada are racist as hell
against First Nations that'd be a home
video but it's unbelievable and
mind-blowing
you know new immigrants to Canada are
not angels they're not immune to racism
and very very quickly they take on the
attitude of well my family migrated here
from China and now we're rich so
therefore if you're not rich and you've
been here in Canada for five minutes
it's your fault yes and the new
immigrants from India and Pakistan tends
to be even more explicitly racist so
that's a challenge even within Canada we
have to deal with is the question of
educating Asians about indigenous nests
about the past present and future of
Canada